========================================
Playlist: Game Boy
URL     : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ECBCF01p5RQ&list=PLE5LkFdD-_Ehb58HSTDJZ2oDSHEkQgfso
Generated: 2025-08-22T17:53:33-05:00
========================================

------------------------------------------------------------
Title      : Game Boy Color Hidden Gems
Channel    : That Video Games Show
Upload Date: 20250424
URL        : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1wXo33_43dA

### Description

Stuck on what to play or what to buy? Join TVGS as I list and discuss ten of the most over looked and obscure Gameboy Color hidden gems that deserve way more love and attention. Many lesser known games have released for the GBC handheld console, so let me know your choice of the top 10 overlooked and underrated games on the system down below! 

Join this channel to get access to perks:
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCnLBpuFZwsZkFZCbSzvb9ZQ/join

Join us on Discord - https://discord.gg/aP2wbhfS4U

Support the channel on Patreon to receive exclusive content, for $1 per month! - https://www.patreon.com/TVGS

• ⬇ Follow Me Here ⬇ •

X - https://www.twitter.com/thevgshow
Tik Tok - https://www.tiktok.com/@thatvideogamesshow
Twitch - https://www.twitch.tv/thatvgshow
Facebook - https://www.facebook.com/thatvideogamesshow
Instagram - https://www.instagram.com/thatvgshow

• ⬇ More Episodes ⬇ •

GBA Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/gba-videos
PS1 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/Playstation-videos
PS3 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/ps3-videos
PS2 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/ps2-video-list
PS4 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/ps4videos
PSP Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/psp-video-list
N64 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/n64vids
DS Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/NDS--videos
Gamecube Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/gamecubevids
Xbox 360 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/360vids
3DS Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/3ds-videos
SNES Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/snes-videos
Switch Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/switch-vids
Vita Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/vitavids
Wii Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/wii-videos
Dreamcast Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/dreamcast-videos
### Chapters
(No chapters found)

### Transcript
12 years after the release of the arcade and NES original, Bionic Commando would once again find its way to Nintendo's handheld. This time headed up by a new studio that would quite arguably create one of the best entries in the series.
It sees you being sent to take down the leader of an evil army that plans to take over the once peaceful land of Corinia with you having the choice of two different characters as you tackle the nearly 20 different levels that make up the adventure. Even though it's a platformer in the game, you can't jump with the key being to utilize your bionic arm that works like an extending swing, allowing you to attach yourself to any ceiling or platform and swing yourself forward. This mechanic works into nearly every aspect of the game.

May that be simply traversing each level or figuring out one of the many puzzles you'll find yourself coming up against.
It can be a bit tricky to get used to at first. But as you get better at the game, all but the hardest of jumps will become routine. Though that doesn't mean it doesn't become less fun. Simply swinging through each level is something that just never gets old. And when you couple it with the combat, the gameplay feels incredibly fluid in motion.

Speaking of combat, you've got a range of weapons to use to your advantage. And you'll start off with a basic machine gun, but later on you'll unlock rocket launchers, shotguns, and flamethrowers that broaden the amount of options you have for taking down some of the more challenging enemies. If you at all enjoyed the originals or are simply a fan of platformers looking for something a bit different from the norm, then Bionic Commando on the Game Boy Color is well worth it. If there was one genre that the Game Boy Color was lacking in, it had to be shooters. But that all changed with the release of Project S11. That is easily one of the most impressive games that landed on the handheld. Similar to a lot of shooters, there's not much in terms of story, and you're basically a pilot of a top secret ship known as the S11, who's tasked with repelling an alien invasion. Now, there's about eight levels in total that see you working towards locating the alien's planet against a range of different backdrops as you're simply tasked with shooting anything that moves. Thankfully, you've got a great range of weapons to handle the wave of enemies with the standard missiles, lasers, spreadshot, and flame fountain, which can all be upgraded by collecting power-ups throughout each run. In terms of defense, you've got a shield meter that offers a bit of protection against bullets, but once it reaches zero, you lose a life. And if you lose all four, it's game over. What effectively enhances the presentation of S11 is its incorporation of several gimmicks that elevate it beyond its otherwise dated appearance. Visually, as the terrain flows by and numerous ships pour onto the screen, you'll no doubt be impressed by the game's use of flowing water, heat distorted volcanoes, and huge bosses that look incredible for its time. The developers, Paragon 5, managed to achieve this even without any noticeable flicker or slowdown, making it one of the best looking games that you're going to see on the Game Boy Color when it comes to shooters.

The Game Boy wasn't without its fair share of platformers, but one that doesn't get talked about too often is Samurai Kid, which perfectly blended action, platforming, and puzzle solving into one of the most overlooked games on the console. Much like the name suggests, you assume the role of a young samurai, where you've got to reclaim 10 castles throughout the land that have been overrun by enemies with your move sets and abilities revolving around three different weapons. You've got your katana, a gourd, and a fan that each come along with unique functions that are both central to not only combat, but solving the many different puzzles throughout each level. Your sword delivers a powerful charged attack that can destroy rocks as well as enemies, whereas the good can be thrown to activate different switches and the fan being used to unleash gusts of wind that can strategically push objects or enemies into the right position. This concept of manipulating the environment is at the core of the gameplay and plays into each of the levels design. It all starts out quite simple. For example, having to lure enemies onto a pressure plate to open a door. But it soon begins to get a lot more complicated with the game introducing time switches, moving platforms, and other hazards that you'll have to contend with. It goes handinhand with another big aspect of the game, and that's exploring. As hidden within the depths of each level are hidden power-ups that rewards players with extra health and armor that can help you achieve the highest score for each level. In the end, Samurai Kid is one of the most unique platformers you're going to find on the Game Boy Color, and thanks to its healthy amount of challenge, it's something that's perfect to take with you on the go. Bomber Man Quest is the perfect mix of the classic bomb-based gameplay and Zelda structure and mechanics that ended up being one of the most overlooked RPGs on the system. It all kicks off with you waking up after crash landing in an unfamiliar land where your goal is to recapture all of the monsters that escaped your ship and recover its engines in order to escape. Now, there are four main sections in the game, each housing one of these engines and monsters that need to be defeated, which are all linked together by a sort of hub town where you're free to shop for new items and craft new weapons. You'll find yourself venturing out and returning often to stock up on hearts and bombs, but you'll slowly begin to unlock new abilities as you make it further into the game. From running shoes to shields and a variety of different armor and weapons, but what lies at the core of the game play is the crafting system by defeating one of the bosses, even some of the regular monsters as well. You'll be rewarded with a bomb core, which can be mixed with one of many different components such as rubber that can create different bombs. You've got bouncing bombs, homing bombs, as well as ice that freezes enemies in place with about 15 different types in total. So, there's a lot to play around with, and it easily becomes one of the more enjoyable aspects of the game. Now, you don't need to capture all 48 of the escape monsters in order to complete the game. You just need to defeat every one of them that has a necessary item that you need, but you won't get the real ending without defeating all four dungeons and their commanders, as well as the escape monsters. and doing so gets you access to a hidden final boss and the true ending for your efforts.

So, if you can find it for a decent price or are looking to emulate something new, Bomber Man Quest is definitely worth playing. Motocross Maniacs was one of the first games to hit the Game Boy, and it felt like the perfect standin for the lack of an excite bike on the system. It eventually made a comeback for the Game Boy Color and once again sees you jumping on your bike and driving across a series of sides scrolling courses, leaping over jumps and cruising through loops all in the hopes of finishing in the fastest time possible. What really adds to the gameplay though is that your timing is not the only thing you'll have to worry about as fuel is limited throughout each run and you'll have to grab powerups that replenish your stock as well as nitro that will help you beat the clock and come in ahead of the pack.

As you course through the air, you're able to perform a variety of different tricks from spins and flips that if landed correctly will earn you a whole host of hidden power-ups. You've got jetpacks, faster boosts, and even an extra life that stops you from crashing out. So, it's a good idea to get used to the trick system early on to make it through some of the more demanding stages later on. What really helps the game hit home, though, is the incredible track editor mode that allows you to create your own tracks from scratch. And with the chance to save several at once, you'll always have something new to play. With the absence of Excite Bike on the Game Boy, Motocross Maniacs 2 is a great alternative. So, if you're looking for a cool little racer on the handheld, definitely consider giving this one a go. Gambon is one of those games that sadly never got an official release outside of Japan, but due to it being a platformer, it's really easy to enjoy without any knowledge of the language.

The series signature blend of its feudal Japanese aesthetic and over-the-top humor is in full swing with the game's presentation being one of its most impressive aspects. Konami really pushed the hardware and delivered a crisp and colorful adventure that is bursting with personality. May that be the expressive and detailed sprites or the fluid and responsive gameplay. It ends up feeling like one of the best of its kind on the handheld. Now, throughout the game, you'll get to control not only Gman, but his trusty partner, Ebie, as well, which each have their own different styles of play. Gman's pipe offers up quick, close-ranged attacks, whereas Eby's longer swings add a little bit of strategy to the otherwise simple combat.

And having the ability to switch between the two of them on the fly ensures that you're ready for whatever the game may throw at you. Of course, you also get to use a range of different powerups such as bombs and invincibility that can really help out in a tight spot. But what the game really gets right is its level design. Each area is meticulously crafted, seamlessly blending the challenge of traversing each level with carefully placed enemies and puzzles that never make it feel repetitive or dull. And with plenty of hidden areas and treasure, you'll find yourself wanting to jump back in to find each and every secret in the game. Overall, Gambe Gon is a great example of why the series remains just as enjoyable today as it did all of those years ago. With its accessible gameplay and infectious sense of fun, it's well worth tracking down and trying it out for yourself. Dicatana is pretty well known for being one of those games that was hyped up beyond belief, but upon its release on PC, it absolutely tanked, was full of bugs, and was nowhere near what was promised throughout its development.

The console versions didn't fare any better. But when it came to the Game Boy Color, the gameplay was completely reimagined and shared much more in common with the likes of Zelda and Cristales, making it perfect for the portable system. The story revolves around Hero, the leader of the Miiamoto clan, who's out to retrieve a sword known as the Dicatana that has the power to grant its user the ability to travel through time. As you work through the 32 levels that make up the campaign, you'll have to deal with an ever growing number of different enemy types. But there's a fair few number of weapons throughout the game. From swords to lasers and hammers that make the combat one of the most enjoyable aspects. Apart from the fighting, you've got a ton of puzzles to contend with as well, which surprisingly provide a decent amount of challenge to complete. From simple platforming to real head scratches that will have you scrambling for the solution, they provide a great change of pace throughout the game. That isn't to say that it's not without its issues, though, and the main one has to be the way it's written, which ends up being quite confusing. Add to this that throughout the game, you'll be forced to play as different characters that don't have access to the same weapons that Hero has, and it does dampen an otherwise really good adventure. Even though it may seem strange, if you're looking to give Die Katana a go, the Game Boy Color Vision is definitely the best option. It's the spiritual successor to the NES COD classic Shadow of the Ninja.

Return brings with it all of the tight platforming and stealth mechanics that made the original so beloved and throws you into the role of a ninja who has to retrieve a set of stolen scrolls taken by a powerful mysterious army that now haunts the once peaceful kingdom. You get to choose from one of two different characters at the start who each have a slightly different play style that adds a bit of variety to the game. Both of them wield a katana but offer up different secondary weapons with one of them getting shurikens and the other a boomerang which give you a means to tackle enemies from afar. The gameplay itself is responsive allowing you to navigate each level with precision but the standout mechanic has to be the backflip that's not only used to evade incoming attacks but to also access some of the harder to reach areas. Unlike some of the other platformers of its time, Return of the Ninja places a great emphasis on stealth. And to avoid being seen, you get to use the environment to your advantage. May that be hiding behind crates, submerging yourself in water, or simply timing your movements to remain unseen. It encourages more deliberate and slower approach than, say, the likes of Ninja Gaiden, which is further enforced at the end of each level, where you're rewarded with a rank based on your stealth speed, and the enemies that you've taken down. While it's not exactly groundbreaking for a Game Boy Color game, it lends to the tension of staying out of sight, which helps to keep each level engaging. So whether you're sneaking into an enemy stronghold, back flipping over gaps, or battling one of the many imposing bosses, Return of the Ninja is a well-crafted ride, and thanks to a limited run reprint and emulation, it's easier than ever to jump into. Harry Potter in the Chamber of Secrets was a completely different take when compared to the games that released on home consoles. It wasn't a straightforward action adventure and instead steered the game into a turn-based RPG that was perfectly tailored towards the strengths of the handheld. Like most RPGs, it's equal parts exploring and fighting with the turn-based battles offering the core of the gameplay where you control Harry, Hermione, and Ron as a party and get to wield their unique magic. It's your pretty standard menu-based system that sees you casting spells, using items, or defending and watching the group unleash their attacks in satisfying bursts. As you would expect, progression also manages to play a major role. And all of your spells will level up the more you use them and end up becoming more powerful versions that offer multiple hits and a higher amount of damage, ensuring that you'll always be in with a fighting chance. Outside of the battles, you'll roam around the school and have to deal with several puzzles that can only be solved by leveraging your magic in different ways. From creating platforms to cross gaps to pulling levers and pushing objects. And with so many secrets to be found, it's a good idea to explore as much as you can. With the game rewarding those who go out of their way with special items that benefit the party in several ways, it's not a game that stands out as one of the best RPGs on the system by any means, but one that proves that even a licensed game can end up being something rather special, and even though it got overshadowed by some of the bigger hits on the handheld, for fans, it is definitely worth a playthrough.

Dragon Warrior Monsters is a spin-off of the popular Dragon Quest series that many write off as a simple Pokemon clone, but doing so would be doing a huge disservice to the game. As even though it does share many of its aspects, especially the monster collecting, it does bring a fair few of its own ideas to the table. The helper becomes something more than a mere imitation. The adventure begins as you take on the role of Terry, who sets out in search of its sister, and as stories go, it's pretty decent for the limitations that are set by the handheld. and it actually manages to weave its narrative throughout the entire game with plenty of surprises and moments that elevate it above what you'd find in Pokémon. And it's not just the story that has more to offer. The aim of the game is to raise the strongest monster you can, not just simply collect them all. As in fact, you wouldn't have the room to do so. Instead, breeding is at the center of building a formidable team of monsters. And with just over 200 to catch, there's a lot of potential for creating your own beasts. And this is where a lot of your time will be spent.

As you wander around the world, you'll quickly get thrown into battle. And the combat system is slightly different than the one found in Pokemon. As you can set your monsters to act in a certain way and watch each fight unfold, choosing from either charge, mixed, or cautious.
Each option will develop the monster in a certain way as you progress as it slowly learns and adapts to your approach in each encounter. Of course, it can all be turned off, and you're free to tackle each battle by selecting their abilities on your own. That really amps up the amount of strategy throughout the game. Swift collecting monsters and creating your own is your f. Dragon Warrior is one game you do not want to skip. Well, that does it for another video. Keep an eye out for the next part as that will be coming up soon. So, don't forget to subscribe and hit that bell to get notified about new videos. You can follow me on all of the socials which are linked below to stay up to date and also join my growing community on Discord to meet many like-minded gamers to continue the conversation with. I'd like to give a special shout out to my Patreon supporters. Rhino, Skill, Jim, Shuden, Richard, Amy, Daniel, Dio, Omar, Strider, Pierre, Carl, Awesome Jacket, Dude, Maximus, Scott, Alfred, Terry, Ryan, Alex, Gamecube Galaxy, Kur Salerman, Fake, and Patty J for their continued support that helps make these videos possible. If you're interested in joining the Discord or supporting the channel through Patreon, you'll find all of these links down below.


------------------------------------------------------------
Title      : Forgotten Game Boy Color Games
Channel    : That Video Games Show
Upload Date: 20250531
URL        : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ECBCF01p5RQ

### Description

Stuck on what to play or what to buy? Join TVGS as I list and discuss ten of the most over looked and forgotten Gameboy Color games that deserve way more love and attention then they received. Many lesser known games have released for the GBC handheld console, so let me know your choice of the top 10 overlooked and underrated games on the system down below! 

Join this channel to get access to perks:
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCnLBpuFZwsZkFZCbSzvb9ZQ/join

Join us on Discord - https://discord.gg/aP2wbhfS4U

All of my PS1 videos can be found here - https://tinyurl.com/Playstation-videos

Support the channel on Patreon to receive exclusive content, for $1 per month! - https://www.patreon.com/TVGS

• ⬇ Follow Me Here ⬇ •

X - https://www.twitter.com/thevgshow
Tik Tok - https://www.tiktok.com/@thatvideogamesshow
Twitch - https://www.twitch.tv/thatvgshow
Facebook - https://www.facebook.com/thatvideogamesshow
Instagram - https://www.instagram.com/thatvgshow

• ⬇ More Episodes ⬇ •

GBA Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/gba-videos
PS1 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/Playstation-videos
PS3 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/ps3-videos
PS2 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/ps2-video-list
PS4 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/ps4videos
PSP Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/psp-video-list
N64 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/n64vids
DS Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/NDS--videos
Gamecube Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/gamecubevids
Xbox 360 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/360vids
3DS Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/3ds-videos
SNES Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/snes-videos
Switch Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/switch-vids
Vita Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/vitavids
Wii Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/wii-videos
Dreamcast Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/dreamcast-videos
### Chapters
(No chapters found)

### Transcript
The Game Boy Color was pretty well known for its lineup of incredible platformers, but one that doesn't get talked about that often has to be Lucky Luke, which is based on a series of comics that the game loosely follows.
There's not much in terms of story and instead the main focus is the gameplay.
That's a fair mix of platforming, some light puzzles, and mini games that make up the adventure. As you would expect, it's all split into a range of different levels with you having the standard run and jump mechanics, as well as being able to fend off enemies with your gun.

What makes the platforming a bit more engaging, though, is Luke's ability to grab onto ledges and ropes, adding a nice amount of verticality to each stage, as well as the level design itself, ensuring that no two levels ever feel the same. One minute you'll be dodging dynamite in a minecart and the next you'll be chasing down a train on horseback. And it's this variety of challenge that really helps Lucky Luke succeed. As I've already mentioned, apart from the general platforming, the range of mini games on offer serve to mix up the gameplay quite well. And the shooting gallery is easily the most enjoyable of the lot. Now, for a Game Boy Color game, Lucky Luke is a real visual standout with all of the sprites being extremely detailed and possessing a nice amount of animations that bring all of the action to life on the small screen. The same can be said for the environments from dusty towns to sprawling canyons that make excellent use of the systems color palette and add plenty of style to the levels that make up the game. All in all, if you're looking for a new platformer to jump into on the Game Boy Color, then Lucky Luke is worth a try.

Ever since the first game released on the Sega Saturn and PlayStation, the Grandia series has become a sort of unsung hero of the RPG genre and a spin-off would eventually hit the Game Boy Color known as Parallel Trippers that hardly ever gets the recognition it deserves. It follows Yui, a young Japanese boy who along with his friends is mysteriously transported from modern Japan to an alternate vision of the grandio world after encountering a strange shooting star in the sky. Your goal is to find various mysterious keys that hold the answer to getting home.

And while the story isn't as intricate or grand as the mainline entries, there's still plenty here to enjoy with many returning characters and fan service that make it an absolute must for anyone familiar with the series.
When it comes to gameplay, it's your standard top-down RPG where you've got to explore a world filled with NPCs, puzzles, and enemies with combat being the true star of the show. It's a rather creative departure from the original's real-time turn-based hybrid approach and instead sees everything playing out from a firstperson perspective with the use of cards being at the center of each and every action you can take. Throughout the game, you've got to build a deck of these cards with the IP gauge making a return that determines the turn order of your party and adds a strategic layer as you decide which cards to play and when.

With nearly 30 different characters to play as, each with their own unique abilities and traits, there's a lot to wrap your head around, which results in a huge amount of options when it comes to combat, making it one of the most engaging systems that you'll find on the Game Boy Color. So, if you're like me and have a fondness for old school RPGs, then grandio parallel trippers is something you'll not want to miss.
The Game Boy Color wasn't really known for its abundance of shooters, but it did receive a version of Gala that took the classic game and updated it with a fresh twist on the tried and tested formula. You take up the fight as a lone pilot, the last survivor of a fleet that was destroyed by an alien force. And your mission is to battle through wave after wave of insect-l like ships, all in the hopes of bringing them down and saving the Earth from destruction. The game is made up of nine different levels, each of which is divided into four waves of enemies to defeat. There are several types of these enemies that each have their own tactics that they try to bring you down with, and they're all represented by different colors.

There are those that form patterns and others that require several hits in order to destroy, adding a bit of challenge to the otherwise simple shooting mechanics. As with most shooters, you've got a few power-ups to collect along the way, which are dropped by fallen enemies that include extra lives, enhanced weapons, and temporary shields that help even the odds against the often chaotic amount of targets that fill the screen. Collecting them can be quite tricky, though, and it ends up feeling like a bit of risk versus reward as they often appear midwave and require you to carefully weave in and out to retrieve them. It all ends up being a solid reimagining of the classic arcade shooter. And for anyone who's played the series before, you'll easily be able to jump in and enjoy what Destination Earth has to offer. It's just a bit of a shame that there's not much in terms of variety when it comes to its game modes or longevity. But if what you're looking for is something to just simply play whilst you're on the go, then it's for sure worth a pickup.

Amada Effects is a combat racer that's loosely based on the Dreamcast original, which all revolves around an intergalactic tournament that sees six alien species coming together to compete in this highstakes competition to prove their dominance over each other. As with a lot of racing games, you've got a few different modes to jump into with the singleplayer campaign being the main draw where you can get to grips with the advantages that each alien race brings to the table. One is better when it comes to control, whereas the others may offer more power or hit points, making it a good idea to try each of them out and experiment with everything that they have to offer. When it comes to the racing itself, it's all displayed from a top- down viewpoint, with each of the tracks being filled with natural hazards such as lava pits, slippery surfaces, and jumps as you and three rivals race to the finish line. It's not all about simply being the fastest, though, as combat soon becomes a huge part of the game with each vehicle having a range of different weapons from lasers to bombs and traps with various power-ups also being scattered across the track that can enhance your weapons or give you a short boost, making them all critical to your success. At the end of each series of races, the combat aspect of the game takes center stage as you're tasked with taking on a boss where you've got to slowly chip away at its health and strategically stay out of harm's way.

That all comes together to add a pretty unique twist on the usual racing formula. While it may not outshine other racers on the system, its innovative approach is something that it can proudly call its own. And even though the top- down view is a bit restrictive, it's nothing that ruins an otherwise impressive racer. As a fan of the original comics, Spawn on the Game Boy Color is something that I always wanted to try out. And after playing it, it ended up being quite a decent platformer that stays true to the many aspects which make the property so beloved. For those not familiar with the story, you play as Al Simmons, a special agent who was betrayed and left for dead, only to be resurrected at Spawn after making a pact with a demon. What follows is his journey for revenge, which is set across seven different levels, taking you from the streets of New York to the depths of hell itself. And gameplay-wise, it's your standard action platformer that sees you having command of spawns different abilities where you've got a basic punch, a dive kick, as well as a chain attack that eats away at your health every time you use it. So, it's a good idea to save it for when you're in a tight spot. You can also find various guns throughout the levels, which give you an extra edge against the enemies, but ammo is extremely limited, so again, it's a good idea to save it. What helps mix up the gameplay though is that apart from the usual sides scrolling levels, you'll often be thrown into bike chases that see you having to ram thugs and shoot cars that add a decent amount of diversity to the game setup. In terms of replay-ability, there's a few different difficulty settings that make going through it again once you've finished all the more enticing. And with plenty of collectibles and secrets to uncover across the stages, there's plenty of incentives for multiple playthroughs.

It's not without its flaws, though, as at times the enemy placement can feel a bit unforgiving. But the game strengths outweigh this issue. And overall, for fans of spawn or just platformers in general, this is definitely a game that will end up being worth your time. Toky is a puzzle platformer and is a spin-off of a game that originally released on the PC that throws you into the role of a cute baby chicken whose siblings have all been kidnapped, and it's up to you to find them and bring them home. With this premise, it may sound like a kids game, but behind this simple setup lies one of the Game Boy's most intricate and challenging games.

You've got to guide Tori through 60 levels across four different worlds, collecting as many eggs as you can, with each of the stages acting like a self-contained puzzle where you're free to navigate it by walking and jumping or using one of the many different items you're given to help you out. These items will instantly be familiar to anyone who's played Lemmings with each of them giving you different options to reach and save each egg throughout the level. You've got the ability to build bridges or teleport through walls and floors, as well as a hoover that can suck up one of the many different enemies that are out to stop you in your tracks. The gameplay is extremely accessible but deceptively challenging with the puzzles starting out quite easy and slowly ramping up in their difficulty. This curve is what makes the game so engaging and with each new world introducing new tools to help you and obstacles to overcome. It manages to remain quite varied throughout its runtime. And with plenty of hidden secrets and special challenges, there's a lot to do apart from just simply clearing each stage. Toki ends up being a perfect game to pick up and play in short bursts. So, if you're up for the challenge, Toki Tori will make a welcome addition to your Game Boy collection.

Pocket Bomber Man was yet another re-release for the Game Boy Color that took the original game and updated it with vibrant visuals which brought new life to the classic bomb-dropping gameplay, making it one of the most enjoyable, albeit forgotten, platformers on the system. As with most games of its kind, the story is pretty bare bones and sees Bomber Man having to retrieve several stones that was stolen by an evil force that threatens to throw the world into darkness. There are five of them in total with the game being split up into various levels that need to be completed before defeating each boss holding a stone. Now, the game play is where Pocket Bomber Man is at its best with each stage requiring strategic bomb placement to destroy breakable blocks, defeat enemies, and uncover power-ups like different bomb types or speed boosts that allows you to approach the game in several ways. The level design is what really helps this range of mechanics shine, as well as some that are included in the environment itself, such as springs and ropes that see you being able to reach higher platforms and at times end up becoming puzzles within themselves. They're all slowly introduced throughout the game's levels and ensure that the beginning is quite forgiving for newcomers. But as you approach the later worlds, the game demands that you have a grip on precise bomb placement as well as quick reflexes to reach the end. Of course, it wouldn't be a platformer without boss battles, which test your mastery of each mechanic and end up being some of the more enjoyable moments in the game. With its easy to pick up and play nature, nearly 30 levels to overcome, as well as a pretty robust multiplayer mode as well, Pocket Bomber Man delivers a great experience that holds up quite well, even all of these years later. The Alien franchise has produced its fair share of great games. May that be more recent offerings like Isolation or hidden gems like Infestation on the DS. But one that has largely been forgotten though has to be Thanos Encounter on the Game Boy Color. And although it may seem a bit crude by today's standards, the gameplay is what really helps sell this top-own shooter.

The game drops you into the boots of a colonial marine who's sent to investigate a distress call from a freighter known as the Phantos, only to find that it's been overrun by Xenomorphs. against the overwhelming odds you've got to fight back against the hordes of aliens and make it out alive across 15 different levels that each bring a range of different objectives to complete. May that be rescuing survivors or finding cards to unlock doors. The variety helps the game from becoming stale and repetitive. And with various different difficulty settings to choose from as well, there's plenty of challenge to be had. As with any shooter, the main draw is your choice of weapons. And with Thanos, you're absolutely spoiled for choice. It ends up feeling like a love letter to Alien fans and features iconic weapons like the pulse rifle, flamethrower, grenade launcher, and even the power loader to help you deal with the huge variety of enemies that the game throws at you. Of course, it's not perfect, and there are a few issues with the game.

Mainly the AI, which has a tendency to act up and cause enemies to get stuck on scenery or behave in bizarre ways that can make the combat feel a bit unpolished. But if you're willing to overlook some of its quirks, then is definitely worth playing if you're fond of top-own shooters. Legend of the River King was released for the original Game Boy in 97, and it would eventually be enhanced for the Game Boy Color a couple of years later and offered up a rather quirky adventure that focuses on a young boy trying to save his sister from a deadly disease. The only cure lies in catching a legendary creature known as the Guardian Fish, which sees you searching across the world's rivers, lakes, and seas in hopes of one day being able to catch it. The story unfolds like any other RPG with you visiting a range of different villages and interacting with a cast of lovable NPCs that offer up clues and trade opportunities as you work towards your goal. What sets it apart from other RPGs on the Game Boy though is that rather than battles being at the center of the gameplay, fishing is the main draw and your means to advance throughout the game. There are just over 40 different fish to catch, requiring specific bait, lurs, and rods, which adds a decent amount of strategy to the otherwise simple mechanics that the game employs. It creates a nice loop of experimentation as each catch can be traded for gold, which can then be spent on new equipment to increase your chances of scoring larger fish. Now, the world is split up into four different areas that are filled with markets and areas to explore and cast your line. But what ends up being an interesting twist is that predators will attack you to try and steal your catch. These take the form of turn-based battles and end up being an unexpected but welcome addition to the game, allowing you to slowly level up and stand your ground. This blend of fishing, trading, and combat is at the center of what The River King is all about, and it creates an addictive and rewarding experience that is bound to keep you hooked.

As a huge fan of retro RPGs, I've recently been diving into some of the more obscure classics, and Last Bible 2 has quickly become one of my favorites.
While it never saw a release here in the West, fans have made it easily accessible with a translation that makes it easier than ever to enjoy for those outside of Japan. Now, what struck me about the game is its surprisingly rich story that follows a young boy named Yuri who was raised in the Demon Kingdom, a place where humans and monsters coexist. And as the boy, you're tasked with preventing the resurrection of a godly power known as Grius that's said to bring nothing but chaos to the world. You slowly begin to realize that Yuri is a lot more important than the early story beats let on and soon gives way to plenty of twists and turns that'll keep you invested throughout the game's runtime. As with any other RPG, the gameplay is just as important as the story. And Last Bible 2 manages to deliver in this department as well.

You'll find yourself exploring the kingdom and coming into contact with a range of different NPCs, many of which become your allies and join you in the fight. At the center of the adventure, though, is the battle system that feels like a blend of Dragon Quest and Pokémon thanks to its monster recruitment and fusion mechanics, a hallmark of the Magame Tensei series. When you encounter an enemy, you're not limited to fighting it, but actually being able to negotiate with the goal being for it to hopefully join your ranks. By fusing these monsters together, you can even create entirely new beasts that adds a huge layer of experimentation to the game, as well as a lot of depth to the abilities of your monsters during each fight. So whether you're tracking down a physical copy or looking for something new to play via emulation, Last Bible 2 is an incredible journey that's well worth undertaking. Well, that does it for another video. Keep an eye out for the next part as that will be coming up soon. So don't forget to subscribe and hit that bell to get notified about new videos. You can follow me on all of the socials which are linked below to stay up to date and also join my growing community on Discord to meet many like-minded gamers to continue the conversation with. I'd like to give a special shout out to my Patreon supporters. Rhino, Skill, Jim, Shuen, Richard, Amy, Daniel, Dio, Omar, Strider, Pierre, Carl, Awesome, Jacket, Dude, Maximus, Scott, Alfred, Terry, Ryan, Alex, Gamecube, Galaxy, Curse, Salery Man, Fake, and Patty J for their continued support that helps make these videos possible. If you're interested in joining the Discord or supporting the channel through Patreon, you'll find all of these links down below. As always, thanks for taking the time to check the video out. I'll catch you next time.


------------------------------------------------------------
Title      : Criminally Underrated Gameboy Games
Channel    : That Video Games Show
Upload Date: 20240715
URL        : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gkxCX7DYVpg

### Description

Stuck on what to play or what to buy? Join TVGS as I list and discuss ten of the most criminally underrated Game Boy games the handheld console ever received. Many incredible games released for the Gameboy Color, so let me know your top 10 lesser known, over looked and underrated GBC games down below!

Join us on Discord - https://discord.gg/aP2wbhfS4U

Support the channel on Patreon to receive exclusive content, for $1 per month! - https://www.patreon.com/TVGS

• ⬇ More Episodes ⬇ •

GBA Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/gba-videos
PS1 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/Playstation-videos
PS3 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/ps3-videos
PS2 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/ps2-video-list
PS4 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/ps4videos
PSP Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/psp-video-list
N64 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/n64vids
DS Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/NDS--videos
Gamecube Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/gamecubevids
Xbox 360 Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/360vids
3DS Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/3ds-videos
SNES Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/snes-videos
Switch Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/switch-vids
Vita Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/vitavids
Wii Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/wii-videos
Dreamcast Playlist - https://tinyurl.com/dreamcast-videos

• ⬇ Follow Me Here ⬇ •

X - https://www.twitter.com/thevgshow
Tik Tok - https://www.tiktok.com/@thatvideogamesshow
Twitch - https://www.twitch.tv/thatvgshow
Facebook - https://www.facebook.com/thatvideogamesshow
Instagram - https://www.instagram.com/thatvgshow
### Chapters
(No chapters found)

### Transcript
I've always been a huge fan of fighting gam so growing up I also had a huge interest in Transformers so upon hearing it would be getting its own game based on the popular Beast Wars spin-off I jumped at the chance to play it unfortunately it would never find its way outside of Japan but due to the nature of the game it's easy for non-japanese speakers to jump in and enjoy what it has to offer as with most Fighters you've got a selection of characters to choose from who all share a range of basic moves like punches and kicks but what helps each stand out from the next is the ability to switch between two different states those being your robot form as well as your Beast both Transformations have different abilities and with each character also having multiple super moves there's a lot to experiment with when it comes to choosing which character to SLE on as your goto it plays almost identically to many of the other 2D Fighters out there we your characters moves being dictated by certain motion inputs on the d-pad in conjunction with hits of the face buttons to pull them off mechanically it's not super complex beyond the transformation gimmick but there is a meter at the bottom of the screen that has to be charged manually which can be expended in a power boosting hyper mode or one of the many different super moves that each character possesses presentation is pretty good too the Sprites are tiny but still manag to be fairly detailed and full of character and charm and they're really well animated giving each move and hit a believable weight during each fight when it comes down to it the Game Boy wasn't really well known for its fighting games but Beast Wars proved that the system was more than capable of producing something on par of its console counterparts during the days of the PlayStation the somewhat quirky RPG known as AER dreams released for the console which offered up the perfect mix of several genres it never really hit the ground running and somewhat fell Into Obscurity as a result but if few years later it would receive a port for the Game Boy Color sure the inferior Hardware meant that several Corners had to be significantly cut but on the whole they managed to retain the essence of the game the story is very simplistic and follows the escapades of a young boy who longs to explore a famed monster tower that looms over his home Village following in the footsteps of his deceased father he decides to embark on the journey in his memory but you won't be alone though as you'll also have the help of your monster companion that's useful in several ways each time you enter the tower your level is set to one and through the many battles and items you find you're slowly grow in strength allowing you to explore for longer periods of time and what makes it even better is that each floor is randomly generated so no one playthrough is the same as the last finally the game doesn't go with the type of battle system most standard RPGs offer basically every step and action you take while in the tower is one turn with monsters moving while you do because of this there isn't a battle every 5 Seconds which is certainly a different approach but you're given a a lot of freedom to strategize as a result obviously with the nature of the tower the replay ability that AER dreams Cooks up is by far one of its most impressive aspects and will easily last you hours upon hours to see everything it has to offer if you can find it for a decent price or are looking for a new RPG to emulate then you should give this one a try magical Chase is a sides scrolling shooter that originally released for the PC engine and would later go on to receive several ports with the Game Boy Color getting its own version and while it was extremely downgraded from its original form it's quite possibly one of the best examples when it comes to Shooters on the Game Boy you play as Ripple and aspiring on witch it was tasked with tracking down six demons she accidentally left free into the world along for the ride of two star maidens that constantly surround her and give you several options when it comes to completing each stage you can control their position and firing Direction and because they can absorb certain types of attacks they can also be used as a pretty handy form of Defense as with most shoot as though there's plenty of other weapons to get your hands on with nine in total becoming available throughout the game you've got rapid fire options wave beams homing attacks and even super powerful specials that are best save for the game's bosses as you take out enemies you'll slowly accumulate currency which can then be spent on other weapons and items that will help you turn the tide against the wave of targets that come your way to be fair between your large life bar and the constant Health drops from enemies the game can be quite easy to get through but thankfully there are several difficulty settings with the highest noticeably changeing the game playay and playing it like this is by far the best way to experience it as with most games of its kind it is quite a short Adventure but with its easy to pick up and play nature it's not really something to hold against it it is absolutely criminal that this game can't be easily acquired these days for a reasonable price so emulation is the best way to go if you fancy trying it out Blaster master has long been a franchise that never gets the public publicity it deserves ever since its first entry on the NES it's always fallen behind the likes of Mega Man and other games of its kind which is a real shame as it's by far one of the most Innovative in its class you play as Jason and utilize a tank as you tackle various levels of increasing difficulty what makes it a bit different though is that this tank can jump and you're allowed to disembark at any time and continue on foot this presents many moments throughout each stage where you'll have to switch between the two play Styles and think on your toes as to which approach is best for the current situation further expanding your options are several upgrades for your tank such as engine boosters and different weapons that can make traversing each level and taking out all of its enemies far easier the same can't be said for the bosses though is it's here where a lot of the challenge lies with each of them bring in their own type of threat to each encounter you'll have to carefully study their attack pattern and wait for the right moment to Unleash Your attacks on them which will no that cause a few deaths in the process it's not all simply about blasting your way for each level though as exploring is also a a huge part of what makes Master Blaster so engaging the previously mentioned upgrades via tank are often hidden deep within catacombs that can only be reached on foot and by doing this you'll constantly be combing over each area in order to find each and every benefit the game offers in terms of gameplay if you find the Platformers and are tired of The Usual Suspects on the console like Mario and Kirby for example Blaster Master will make for a great change of pace Quest on the Game Boy Color is a essentially a port of an often overlooked Nintendo 64 RPG that managed to retain many of the aspects of its 3D counterpart and translates it to the 2D space quite nicely you'll be embarking on the same Quest going through the same towns fighting the same enemies using the same battle strategies all just without the extra Dimension as the name of the game implies you'll take on the role of Brian as you set out to recover a mysterious book and find out what happened to your father who decided to look for it himself but disappeared the story is not going to win any awards but it does set the stage for what is a pretty decent Adventure that's thankfully filled with much more engaging gameplay than the narrative itself the battles play out in a turn-based manner with a player having the ability to freely run around the field and even Dodge some of the incoming attacks but the first striking differen is in the experience and leveling up systems in particular there is no General experience gained and no standard levels to be earned instead Improvement of Statistics comes through the use of them other statistics such as HP MP agility and and defense increase through the back and forth dodging and damage taking involved in battle in addition to This spells aren't gained by leveling or through Scrolls or other methods but by finding Spirits while exploring and increasing a spirit meter while fighting there are 200 total of these to find and gain that makes exploring the world a truly rewarding task as a whole even if it's not quite as good as some other games on the handheld it does make for a rather unique Adventure that every fan of the genre should give a fair go on first glance Wendy Every Which Way may appear to be nothing more than a simple kids game but writing it off on its appearance alone would be a huge mistake the game play is what makes it and this is due to one of the main mechanics that everything in the game revolves around and that's the control of gravity instead of just providing a run-of-the-mill platforming adventure Way Forward built the game around this concept which adds a huge strategic element to the minute to- minute gameplay now the game is made up of 12 levels which are divided into four separate worlds each with their own look and feel as well as unique enemies that occupy each the controls are incredibly easy to pick up with the a button allowing you to jump and B seeing you fire your magic from your wand by pressing both this is how you change gravity that quickly flips the perspective and allows you to bypass enemies and obstacles that otherwise would be impossible at the end of each of the worlds you enter a bonus level and here you ride a broom in a sides scrolling shooter these stages offer a welcome break from the usual platforming and mix up the gam playay quite nicely as you make your way through the game visually this is easily one of the game boy's most impressive games as Way Forward have always been known for their quality Sprite work and the early traces of that can be seen in the smooth animations of each and every action you take if there was one negative I could throw at the game it would be that it's just over way too soon and once you've beaten it there's not much of a reason to make your way through it again with that aside though Wendy every which way is still one of the best options if you're looking for a platform around the Game Boy the best way to describe Mr drillo would be that it's essentially a combination of both Tetris and boulder dash with the main objective is to dig through differing shapes and color blocks to reach the bottom of a m shaft while it sounds like it's a simple matter of just drilling down until you reach the goal there are a few elements that prevent this from being anything as easy as that first of all you've got a continuous depleting air meter and if it runs out you lose a life to refill this meter you have to pick up these capsules that give you 20% of your RAR back which are mostly easy easy to get your hands on but at times they'll be locked away behind certain blocks with an X painted on them which themselves deplete your air upon breaking them this is the only real challenge that Mr drill presents which is certain points can become quite hectic especially in some of the later levels that will really test your reflexes and speed now the only real negative I took away from the game is that there just isn't that much to do outside of the main mode of play other options like survival or different difficulty settings are completely missing which does hurt it overall but if you're looking for something and that's easy to pick up and play in short burst this is when Mr driller comes into its own overall puzzle fans will have fun with this title but after a while even the most DieHard puzzlers will want to find something else I do recommend this game though or even better the DS version drill spirits but if you do see this one for a good price it would still make a welcome addition to anyone's Game Boy collection Canon fod was released in 93 for the Amiga and was subsequently ported to nearly every machine in exist during that period including such obscure consoles like the Fredo and the Atari Jaguar it plays like an oversimplified RTS that sees you having control of a squad of soldiers as you drop in Behind Enemy Lines and ATT Tas with various objectives to complete these soldiers are controlled as one single unit moving in a single line but it is possible to split them up into smaller divisions when it comes to providing cover fire or laying down for an ambush on the enemy down the line these tactics become Central to achieving your goal that usually consists of taking out each enemy or destroying specific buildings within their base this is where they respawn so taking them out first is usually a good idea if you hope to stand a chance against the near endless waves of enemies that appear throughout each stage during the course of the game other elements are also introduced such as Vehicles traps and Wildlife as well as several different locations such as jungles deserts and Ice planes which add some variation but the fundamental gameplay never really changes Canon fodder is a classic from a byard on era that is still very playable today which is partially due to its Simplicity but can also be attributed to its dark sense of humor that permeates throughout the entire game as for Aesthetics the Music and Sound aren't as good as in the original Amiga Vision but the graphics do a good job of staying true to the other visions and look really good on the small screen despite some shortcomings with the game's difficulty and some odd choices when it comes to control Canon father is still an absolute blast to playr power Quest is easily one of the game boy's most overlooked and underrated games which brought together elements from both Fighters and RPGs that results in one of the most addictive experiences you'll find on the handheld it's largely split up into two separate styles of play with the first scene you exploring a huge Town filled with various NPCs and shops that allow you to improve your character over time for the use of credits which are rewarded at the end of each fight by walking around the town you'll randomly be thrown into one of these encounters which presented in a standard 2D fighting setup here you've got your basic heavy and light attack as well as a selection of special moves that can all be comboed into and here is where most of the fun lies in figuring out the best strategies to defeat your enemy in the quickest amount of time as I mentioned earlier though it's the RPG aspects of the game that really help elevate it above the others on the system as each character is essentially a robot you get the option to upgrade and customize your machine to match how you approach each fight these can be new parts new moves and even a boost to your attributes that have a noticeable effect when facing down another robot further mixing things up is the inclusion of several modes that help prolong the game well after the story is wrapped up there's several options but survival is easily the best of the bunch which sees you taken on a constant series of battles against opponents of increasing difficulty until you fail if you want a good fighting game that you can bring along with you wherever you go then power Quest will not disappoint Star Ocean has long been one of my favorite RPG franchises and even though blue sphere never made its way outside of Japan it's now fully playable in English thanks to a dedicated fan base that have helped bring this forgotten adventure to the West it takes place right after the events of Second Story and brings back the entire cast of characters for another journey to undertake as with many RPGs you'll be meeting up with a band of like-minded Heroes in the hopes of combating an ancient evil that's wreaking havoc amongst the solar system even though the premise might be a bit cliche the game play is one makes blue sphere such a stellar experience and this is mainly during battle which serves as the main highlight of the game and it's all carried out in real time through something known as the linear motion battle system that sees up the three of your Heroes taking on enemies at the same time here you've got a huge selection of abilities to pull off from your basic melee attacks to the far more impressive magic and specific skills that make taken on even the most common of enemies all the more engaging naturally you'll be developing your characters over the course of the adventure through each of their development charts we are free to spend any skill points you've attained on any desired attribute This lends a welcome amount of freedom to how each character develops and with so many abilities for them to learn it's great to experiment with what really blew me away though is just how incredible this game looks on the small screen it simply just doesn't look like a Game Boy game thanks to the range of detail both in Sprites and the various locations you'll visit it even throws in some Sprite based cutscenes for several story moments that really add to the various plot threads throughout the journey overall when it comes to RPGs on the Game Boy it really doesn't get any better than blue sphere well that does it for today's video keep an eye out for part two as that will be coming up soon so don't forget to subscribe and hit that Bell to get notified about new videos which release every Monday and Thursday you can follow me on all of the socials which are linked below to stay up to date and also join my growing community on Discord to continue the conversation with and to take part in giveaways as well i' like to give a special shout out to my patreon supporters for their continued support that helps make these videos possible if you're interested Ed in joining my Discord or supporting the channel through patreon you'll find all of these links down below thanks for taking the time to check the video out I'll catch you next time

------------------------------------------------------------
Title      : Game Boy
Channel    : That Video Games Show
URL        : https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLE5LkFdD-_Ehb58HSTDJZ2oDSHEkQgfso

### Description


### Chapters
(No chapters found)

### Transcript
12 years after the release of the arcade and NES original, Bionic Commando would once again find its way to Nintendo's handheld. This time headed up by a new studio that would quite arguably create one of the best entries in the series.
It sees you being sent to take down the leader of an evil army that plans to take over the once peaceful land of Corinia with you having the choice of two different characters as you tackle the nearly 20 different levels that make up the adventure. Even though it's a platformer in the game, you can't jump with the key being to utilize your bionic arm that works like an extending swing, allowing you to attach yourself to any ceiling or platform and swing yourself forward. This mechanic works into nearly every aspect of the game.

May that be simply traversing each level or figuring out one of the many puzzles you'll find yourself coming up against.
It can be a bit tricky to get used to at first. But as you get better at the game, all but the hardest of jumps will become routine. Though that doesn't mean it doesn't become less fun. Simply swinging through each level is something that just never gets old. And when you couple it with the combat, the gameplay feels incredibly fluid in motion.

Speaking of combat, you've got a range of weapons to use to your advantage. And you'll start off with a basic machine gun, but later on you'll unlock rocket launchers, shotguns, and flamethrowers that broaden the amount of options you have for taking down some of the more challenging enemies. If you at all enjoyed the originals or are simply a fan of platformers looking for something a bit different from the norm, then Bionic Commando on the Game Boy Color is well worth it. If there was one genre that the Game Boy Color was lacking in, it had to be shooters. But that all changed with the release of Project S11. That is easily one of the most impressive games that landed on the handheld. Similar to a lot of shooters, there's not much in terms of story, and you're basically a pilot of a top secret ship known as the S11, who's tasked with repelling an alien invasion. Now, there's about eight levels in total that see you working towards locating the alien's planet against a range of different backdrops as you're simply tasked with shooting anything that moves. Thankfully, you've got a great range of weapons to handle the wave of enemies with the standard missiles, lasers, spreadshot, and flame fountain, which can all be upgraded by collecting power-ups throughout each run. In terms of defense, you've got a shield meter that offers a bit of protection against bullets, but once it reaches zero, you lose a life. And if you lose all four, it's game over. What effectively enhances the presentation of S11 is its incorporation of several gimmicks that elevate it beyond its otherwise dated appearance. Visually, as the terrain flows by and numerous ships pour onto the screen, you'll no doubt be impressed by the game's use of flowing water, heat distorted volcanoes, and huge bosses that look incredible for its time. The developers, Paragon 5, managed to achieve this even without any noticeable flicker or slowdown, making it one of the best looking games that you're going to see on the Game Boy Color when it comes to shooters.

The Game Boy wasn't without its fair share of platformers, but one that doesn't get talked about too often is Samurai Kid, which perfectly blended action, platforming, and puzzle solving into one of the most overlooked games on the console. Much like the name suggests, you assume the role of a young samurai, where you've got to reclaim 10 castles throughout the land that have been overrun by enemies with your move sets and abilities revolving around three different weapons. You've got your katana, a gourd, and a fan that each come along with unique functions that are both central to not only combat, but solving the many different puzzles throughout each level. Your sword delivers a powerful charged attack that can destroy rocks as well as enemies, whereas the good can be thrown to activate different switches and the fan being used to unleash gusts of wind that can strategically push objects or enemies into the right position. This concept of manipulating the environment is at the core of the gameplay and plays into each of the levels design. It all starts out quite simple. For example, having to lure enemies onto a pressure plate to open a door. But it soon begins to get a lot more complicated with the game introducing time switches, moving platforms, and other hazards that you'll have to contend with. It goes handinhand with another big aspect of the game, and that's exploring. As hidden within the depths of each level are hidden power-ups that rewards players with extra health and armor that can help you achieve the highest score for each level. In the end, Samurai Kid is one of the most unique platformers you're going to find on the Game Boy Color, and thanks to its healthy amount of challenge, it's something that's perfect to take with you on the go. Bomber Man Quest is the perfect mix of the classic bomb-based gameplay and Zelda structure and mechanics that ended up being one of the most overlooked RPGs on the system. It all kicks off with you waking up after crash landing in an unfamiliar land where your goal is to recapture all of the monsters that escaped your ship and recover its engines in order to escape. Now, there are four main sections in the game, each housing one of these engines and monsters that need to be defeated, which are all linked together by a sort of hub town where you're free to shop for new items and craft new weapons. You'll find yourself venturing out and returning often to stock up on hearts and bombs, but you'll slowly begin to unlock new abilities as you make it further into the game. From running shoes to shields and a variety of different armor and weapons, but what lies at the core of the game play is the crafting system by defeating one of the bosses, even some of the regular monsters as well. You'll be rewarded with a bomb core, which can be mixed with one of many different components such as rubber that can create different bombs. You've got bouncing bombs, homing bombs, as well as ice that freezes enemies in place with about 15 different types in total. So, there's a lot to play around with, and it easily becomes one of the more enjoyable aspects of the game. Now, you don't need to capture all 48 of the escape monsters in order to complete the game. You just need to defeat every one of them that has a necessary item that you need, but you won't get the real ending without defeating all four dungeons and their commanders, as well as the escape monsters. and doing so gets you access to a hidden final boss and the true ending for your efforts.

So, if you can find it for a decent price or are looking to emulate something new, Bomber Man Quest is definitely worth playing. Motocross Maniacs was one of the first games to hit the Game Boy, and it felt like the perfect standin for the lack of an excite bike on the system. It eventually made a comeback for the Game Boy Color and once again sees you jumping on your bike and driving across a series of sides scrolling courses, leaping over jumps and cruising through loops all in the hopes of finishing in the fastest time possible. What really adds to the gameplay though is that your timing is not the only thing you'll have to worry about as fuel is limited throughout each run and you'll have to grab powerups that replenish your stock as well as nitro that will help you beat the clock and come in ahead of the pack.

As you course through the air, you're able to perform a variety of different tricks from spins and flips that if landed correctly will earn you a whole host of hidden power-ups. You've got jetpacks, faster boosts, and even an extra life that stops you from crashing out. So, it's a good idea to get used to the trick system early on to make it through some of the more demanding stages later on. What really helps the game hit home, though, is the incredible track editor mode that allows you to create your own tracks from scratch. And with the chance to save several at once, you'll always have something new to play. With the absence of Excite Bike on the Game Boy, Motocross Maniacs 2 is a great alternative. So, if you're looking for a cool little racer on the handheld, definitely consider giving this one a go. Gambon is one of those games that sadly never got an official release outside of Japan, but due to it being a platformer, it's really easy to enjoy without any knowledge of the language.

The series signature blend of its feudal Japanese aesthetic and over-the-top humor is in full swing with the game's presentation being one of its most impressive aspects. Konami really pushed the hardware and delivered a crisp and colorful adventure that is bursting with personality. May that be the expressive and detailed sprites or the fluid and responsive gameplay. It ends up feeling like one of the best of its kind on the handheld. Now, throughout the game, you'll get to control not only Gman, but his trusty partner, Ebie, as well, which each have their own different styles of play. Gman's pipe offers up quick, close-ranged attacks, whereas Eby's longer swings add a little bit of strategy to the otherwise simple combat.

And having the ability to switch between the two of them on the fly ensures that you're ready for whatever the game may throw at you. Of course, you also get to use a range of different powerups such as bombs and invincibility that can really help out in a tight spot. But what the game really gets right is its level design. Each area is meticulously crafted, seamlessly blending the challenge of traversing each level with carefully placed enemies and puzzles that never make it feel repetitive or dull. And with plenty of hidden areas and treasure, you'll find yourself wanting to jump back in to find each and every secret in the game. Overall, Gambe Gon is a great example of why the series remains just as enjoyable today as it did all of those years ago. With its accessible gameplay and infectious sense of fun, it's well worth tracking down and trying it out for yourself. Dicatana is pretty well known for being one of those games that was hyped up beyond belief, but upon its release on PC, it absolutely tanked, was full of bugs, and was nowhere near what was promised throughout its development.

The console versions didn't fare any better. But when it came to the Game Boy Color, the gameplay was completely reimagined and shared much more in common with the likes of Zelda and Cristales, making it perfect for the portable system. The story revolves around Hero, the leader of the Miiamoto clan, who's out to retrieve a sword known as the Dicatana that has the power to grant its user the ability to travel through time. As you work through the 32 levels that make up the campaign, you'll have to deal with an ever growing number of different enemy types. But there's a fair few number of weapons throughout the game. From swords to lasers and hammers that make the combat one of the most enjoyable aspects. Apart from the fighting, you've got a ton of puzzles to contend with as well, which surprisingly provide a decent amount of challenge to complete. From simple platforming to real head scratches that will have you scrambling for the solution, they provide a great change of pace throughout the game. That isn't to say that it's not without its issues, though, and the main one has to be the way it's written, which ends up being quite confusing. Add to this that throughout the game, you'll be forced to play as different characters that don't have access to the same weapons that Hero has, and it does dampen an otherwise really good adventure. Even though it may seem strange, if you're looking to give Die Katana a go, the Game Boy Color Vision is definitely the best option. It's the spiritual successor to the NES COD classic Shadow of the Ninja.

Return brings with it all of the tight platforming and stealth mechanics that made the original so beloved and throws you into the role of a ninja who has to retrieve a set of stolen scrolls taken by a powerful mysterious army that now haunts the once peaceful kingdom. You get to choose from one of two different characters at the start who each have a slightly different play style that adds a bit of variety to the game. Both of them wield a katana but offer up different secondary weapons with one of them getting shurikens and the other a boomerang which give you a means to tackle enemies from afar. The gameplay itself is responsive allowing you to navigate each level with precision but the standout mechanic has to be the backflip that's not only used to evade incoming attacks but to also access some of the harder to reach areas. Unlike some of the other platformers of its time, Return of the Ninja places a great emphasis on stealth. And to avoid being seen, you get to use the environment to your advantage. May that be hiding behind crates, submerging yourself in water, or simply timing your movements to remain unseen. It encourages more deliberate and slower approach than, say, the likes of Ninja Gaiden, which is further enforced at the end of each level, where you're rewarded with a rank based on your stealth speed, and the enemies that you've taken down. While it's not exactly groundbreaking for a Game Boy Color game, it lends to the tension of staying out of sight, which helps to keep each level engaging. So whether you're sneaking into an enemy stronghold, back flipping over gaps, or battling one of the many imposing bosses, Return of the Ninja is a well-crafted ride, and thanks to a limited run reprint and emulation, it's easier than ever to jump into. Harry Potter in the Chamber of Secrets was a completely different take when compared to the games that released on home consoles. It wasn't a straightforward action adventure and instead steered the game into a turn-based RPG that was perfectly tailored towards the strengths of the handheld. Like most RPGs, it's equal parts exploring and fighting with the turn-based battles offering the core of the gameplay where you control Harry, Hermione, and Ron as a party and get to wield their unique magic. It's your pretty standard menu-based system that sees you casting spells, using items, or defending and watching the group unleash their attacks in satisfying bursts. As you would expect, progression also manages to play a major role. And all of your spells will level up the more you use them and end up becoming more powerful versions that offer multiple hits and a higher amount of damage, ensuring that you'll always be in with a fighting chance. Outside of the battles, you'll roam around the school and have to deal with several puzzles that can only be solved by leveraging your magic in different ways. From creating platforms to cross gaps to pulling levers and pushing objects. And with so many secrets to be found, it's a good idea to explore as much as you can. With the game rewarding those who go out of their way with special items that benefit the party in several ways, it's not a game that stands out as one of the best RPGs on the system by any means, but one that proves that even a licensed game can end up being something rather special, and even though it got overshadowed by some of the bigger hits on the handheld, for fans, it is definitely worth a playthrough.

Dragon Warrior Monsters is a spin-off of the popular Dragon Quest series that many write off as a simple Pokemon clone, but doing so would be doing a huge disservice to the game. As even though it does share many of its aspects, especially the monster collecting, it does bring a fair few of its own ideas to the table. The helper becomes something more than a mere imitation. The adventure begins as you take on the role of Terry, who sets out in search of its sister, and as stories go, it's pretty decent for the limitations that are set by the handheld. and it actually manages to weave its narrative throughout the entire game with plenty of surprises and moments that elevate it above what you'd find in Pokémon. And it's not just the story that has more to offer. The aim of the game is to raise the strongest monster you can, not just simply collect them all. As in fact, you wouldn't have the room to do so. Instead, breeding is at the center of building a formidable team of monsters. And with just over 200 to catch, there's a lot of potential for creating your own beasts. And this is where a lot of your time will be spent.

As you wander around the world, you'll quickly get thrown into battle. And the combat system is slightly different than the one found in Pokemon. As you can set your monsters to act in a certain way and watch each fight unfold, choosing from either charge, mixed, or cautious.
Each option will develop the monster in a certain way as you progress as it slowly learns and adapts to your approach in each encounter. Of course, it can all be turned off, and you're free to tackle each battle by selecting their abilities on your own. That really amps up the amount of strategy throughout the game. Swift collecting monsters and creating your own is your f. Dragon Warrior is one game you do not want to skip. Well, that does it for another video. Keep an eye out for the next part as that will be coming up soon. So, don't forget to subscribe and hit that bell to get notified about new videos. You can follow me on all of the socials which are linked below to stay up to date and also join my growing community on Discord to meet many like-minded gamers to continue the conversation with. I'd like to give a special shout out to my Patreon supporters. Rhino, Skill, Jim, Shuden, Richard, Amy, Daniel, Dio, Omar, Strider, Pierre, Carl, Awesome Jacket, Dude, Maximus, Scott, Alfred, Terry, Ryan, Alex, Gamecube Galaxy, Kur Salerman, Fake, and Patty J for their continued support that helps make these videos possible. If you're interested in joining the Discord or supporting the channel through Patreon, you'll find all of these links down below.


